**Linux Filesystem Hierarchy and Troubleshooting Issues**

**Directory** \- /

**What does it contains?**  
/ directory is the top most directory of filesystem hierarchy in linux. All files and directories are organized under this directory, making it as the starting point of the filesystem

**Files and folders i noticed from ls \-l /**

* /etc/bin

**I would use this when…**  
I would use this when i need to navigate to any directory in the system and also it helps understanding the overall filestructure

### **Directory \- /home**

**What it contains (1–2 lines):**  
 It contains the home (workspace) directories of individual users, where each user stores their personal files, configurations, and data.

**Files/Folders I noticed from ls \-l /home:**

* ubuntu  
* Shivkumar

**I would use this when…**  
 I would use this when I need to access or manage files, configurations, or permissions related to a specific user account.

### **Directory \- /root**

**What it contains (1–2 lines):**  
It contains files and configuration related to the root user

**Files/Folders I noticed from ls \-l /root:**   
I am getting permission denied, but when i entered sudo ls \-l /root i am able to see one file named snap 

**I would use this when…**  
I would use this when performing administrative or system-level tasks that require root access

### **Directory: /etc**

**What it contains (1–2 lines):**  
 It contains system-wide configuration files and directories for both installed and preinstalled services such as SSH, cron, systemd, nginx, docker, and others.

**Files/Folders I noticed from ls \-l /etc:**

* Configuration files ending with .conf  
* Service directories like ssh, nginx, docker, cron, systemd, and python3

**I would use this when…**  
I would use this when I need to configure, modify, or troubleshoot system and service-level settings.

### **Directory: /var/log**

**What it contains (1–2 lines):**  
 It contains log files generated by the system and various services, which record events, errors, and system activity.

**Files/Folders I noticed from ls \-l /var/log:**

* syslog  
* Files with .log extension  
* Directories like journal, chrony, and apt

**I would use this when…**  
 I would use this when I need to troubleshoot issues, investigate errors, or check the behavior of system and application services.

### **Directory: /tmp**

**What it contains (1–2 lines):**  
 It contains temporary files and directories created by the system and applications for short-term use.

**Files/Folders I noticed from ls \-l /var/log:**

* syslog  
* Files with .log extension  
* Directories like journal, chrony, and apt

**I would use this when…**  
I would use this when I need a temporary location for files during testing or when cleaning up temporary data to free system space.

### **Directory: /bin**

**What it contains (1–2 lines):**  
 It contains essential command binaries such as cp, ls, and mkdir, which are required for basic system operation and are available even in recovery mode.

**Files/Folders I noticed from ls \-l /bin:**

* cp  
* ls  
* mkdir

**I would use this when…**  
I would use this when performing basic file and system operations, especially during troubleshooting or recovery scenarios.

### 

### 

### 

### 

### 

### **Directory: /usr/bin**

**What it contains (1–2 lines):**  
 It contains user-level command binaries used for normal day-to-day operations, such as editors, compression tools, and other utilities that are not required for minimal system boot.

**Files/Folders I noticed from ls \-l /usr/bin:**

* zcat  
* zip  
* gunzip  
* vim

**I would use this when…**  
 I would use this when performing regular user tasks such as editing files, compressing or extracting files, and running common utilities during normal system usage.

### **Directory: /opt**

**What it contains (1–2 lines):**  
 It contains optional or third-party software installed separately from the operating system, such as container runtimes or vendor applications.

**Files/Folders I noticed from ls \-l /opt:**

* containerd

**I would use this when…**  
 I would use this when installing or managing third-party applications or tools that are not part of the default Linux system packages.

After running below command, i found that the largest logfile in the /var/log directory is journal  
du \-sh /var/log/\* 2\>/dev/null | sort \-h | tail \-5

Cat /etc/hostname \- returns hostname of the server

ls \-la \~ \- returns all files including the files that start with .

**Part 2**

Scenario 1: Service Not Starting

A web application service called 'myapp' failed to start after a server reboot. What commands would you run to diagnose the issue? Write at least 4 commands in order.

1. systemctl status myapp– to check whether system is or no  
2. systemctl is-enabled myapp \- to check whether it is enabled to start automatically after boot  
3. journalctl  \-u myapp \- to check logs for errors  
4. systemctl start myapp \- try starting the app  
5. journalctl \-u myapp \-b- this is used to check the logs from just last boot  
6. systemctl enable myapp \- It enables to start automatically after boot

Scenario 2: High CPU Usage

Your manager reports that the application server is slow. You SSH into the server. What commands would you run to identify which process is using high CPU?

1. top \- check the total cpu usage of the system  
2. htop \- check enhanced view of top  
3. ps aux \--sort=-%cpu | head \-10 \- this is used to check which process is consuming high cpu

Scenario 3: Finding Service Logs

A developer asks: "Where are the logs for the 'docker' service?" The service is managed by systemd. What commands would you use?

1. systemctl status docker \-  check status of docker  
2. Journalctl \-u docker \-n 10 \- check last 10 lines of logs of docker service  
3. journalctl \-u docker \-f \- realtime logs of docker service

Scenario 4: File Permissions Issue

A script at /home/user/backup.sh is not executing. When you run it: ./backup.sh You get: "Permission denied" What commands would you use to fix this?

1. ls \-l /home/user/backup.sh \- check permissions  
2. chmod \+x /home/user/[backup.sh](http://backup.sh) \- this command will assign execute permission to [backup.sh](http://backup.sh) file  
3. ls \-l /home/user/backup.sh \- verify permissions  
4. ./[backup.sh](http://backup.sh) – try running backup.sh